 A US media report says at least 18 people have been killed in the Chinese region of Xinjiang during a clash at a police checkpoint. According to US-based Radio Free Asia, ethnic Uighurs - part of China's Muslim minority - attacked the police on the outskirts of Kashgar city on Monday. The Chinese authorities have refused to comment on the incident.Hospital workers in Kashgar told the BBC several injured police received medical treatment.Radio Free Asia reports the attackers killed police officers using bombs and knives after speeding through the checkpoint at night. 
There is frequent unrest in Xinjiang between the Chinese authorities and the Uighurs, and hundreds have died in attacks over the past three years.Uighurs say Beijing's repression of their religious and cultural customs is provoking the violence. Muslim party members, civil servants, students and teachers are stopped from observing the Ramadan period when Muslims fast - one of the five pillars of Islam.But China insists the attacks are being carried out by what it calls Islamic terrorists supported by overseas groups.
Uighurs are ethnically Turkic Muslims
They make up about 45% of the region's population; 40% are Han Chinese
China re-established control in 1949 after crushing short-lived state of East Turkestan
Since then, there has been large-scale immigration of Han Chinese
Uighurs fear erosion of traditional culture
Who are the Uighurs?Are you in Xinjiang, China? Do you have friends or family near Kashgar city? Are you affected by the issues raised in this story? Please email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk with your experiences.If you would be happy to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number. You can also tweet your stories to @BBC_HaveYourSay or text 61124. If you are outside the UK, send them to the international number +44 7624 800 100. Or WhatsApp us on +44 7525 900971Read our terms and conditions.
 If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
 contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
 you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
 When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
 take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
 Terms and conditions
