 Media captionDalai Lama: "Relying on using force and censorship, remain a closed society... is almost like suicide"
The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, says he hopes for a new Chinese approach to Tibet with the expected change in its leadership next month. His comments come as the Tibetan exile movement meets at its headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharamsala to discuss its future strategy.There is growing concern over the number of Tibetans self-immolating or setting themselves on fire. Activists say 51 Tibetans have set themselves on fire since 2009.
Tibet divide
China says Tibet always part of its territory 
Tibet had long periods of autonomy
China launched a military assault in 1950
Opposition to Chinese rule led to a bloody uprising in 1959 
Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, fled to India 
Dalai Lama now advocates a "middle way" with Beijing, seeking autonomy but not independence 
The Tibet issue: Two views
Inside Tibet
The Dalai Lama and the Tibetan government-in-exile are under increasing pressure - not just from Beijing but now also from their followers who are divided over how to continue their struggle against Chinese rule. 
Some of those gathering in Dharamsala this week want a more assertive policy, including more open backing of Tibetans setting themselves on fire, while others say this tactic is against Buddhist teachings and want another approach.The Dalai lama has steered a middle course.In a BBC interview, he said the immolations were a symptom of China's repressive rule in Tibet and called on its new leadership to accept the need for change."The new leadership must use common sense and a more holistic view to serve long term-interest. There is no other way. "Just using force, censorship and to remain a closed society is almost like suicide. Judging that way, I feel there is possibility or a real chance to change." Beijing says Tibet is an integral part of China and accuses the Dalai Lama of trying to break the Himalayan region away. The Dalai Lama says he only wants greater autonomy.But, he said, it was getting harder to reach an agreement because of an increasing divide between ethnic Tibetans and the Han Chinese who have been encouraged to move there by Beijing. 
 More on this story Tibetan self-immolations: 'Clashes' in Sichuan province 14 August 2012 Tibetan woman dies after setting herself alight 8 August 2012 Two Tibetans set themselves on fire in Qinghai 21 June 2012 Detentions reported in Tibet capital after immolations 31 May 2012 Self-immolations shake Tibetan resolve 18 April 2012 Tibetan self-immolation activist in India dies 28 March 2012 Tibetan protests: Qinghai immolation sparks mass protest 17 March 2012 
 Related Internet links Free Tibet Radio Free Asia Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
